Migrate profiler enabling docs to single Cdocs page (#35099)
DataDog/documentation: layouts/shortcodes/mdoc/en/profiler/enabling/dotnet.mdoc.md

| `Auto`                        | Activate the profiler if and only if (1) a trace has been created and (2) the application lasts more than 30 seconds. |
| `0` or `false`                | Disable the profiler.                                                                                                 |

{% alert %}
The Auto value is aimed to avoid short lived processes without any trace. This feature is in Preview.
{% /alert %}
{% /tab %}

{% tab label="Linux" %}
Set the following required environment variables for automatic instrumentation to attach to your application:

```text
CORECLR_ENABLE_PROFILING=1
CORECLR_PROFILER={846F5F1C-F9AE-4B07-969E-05C26BC060D8}
CORECLR_PROFILER_PATH=/opt/datadog/Datadog.Trace.ClrProfiler.Native.so
DD_DOTNET_TRACER_HOME=/opt/datadog
LD_PRELOAD=/opt/datadog/continuousprofiler/Datadog.Linux.ApiWrapper.x64.so
DD_PROFILING_ENABLED=1

# other optional environment variables
DD_ENV=production
DD_VERSION=1.2.3
```

For standalone applications, manually restart the application as you normally would.

Optional: Set up [Source Code Integration][14] to connect your profiling data with your Git repositories.

> A couple of minutes after you start your application, your profiles appear on the [Datadog APM > Profiler page][15]. If they do not, refer to the [Troubleshooting][16] guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A couple of minutes after you start your application, your profiles appear on the [Datadog APM > Profiler page][15]. If they do not, see the [Troubleshooting][16] guide.
```

For .NET Framework:
```text
COR_ENABLE_PROFILING=1
COR_PROFILER={846F5F1C-F9AE-4B07-969E-05C26BC060D8}
DD_PROFILING_ENABLED=1

# other optional environment variables
DD_ENV=production
DD_VERSION=1.2.3
```

{% img src="tracing/setup/dotnet/RegistryEditorFramework.png" alt="Using the Registry Editor to create environment variables for a .NET Framework application in IIS" style="width:90%" /%}

The environment variables are applied for *all* IIS applications. Starting with IIS 10, you can set environment variables for each IIS application in the [`C:\Windows\System32\inetsrv\config\applicationhost.config` file][17]. Read the [Microsoft documentation][18] for more details.

Completely stop and start IIS by running the following commands as an administrator:

```shell
net stop /y was
net start w3svc
```

{% alert level="danger" %}
Use `stop` and `start` commands. A reset or restart does not always work.
{% /alert %}

Optional: Set up [Source Code Integration][14] to connect your profiling data with your Git repositories.

> A couple of minutes after you start your application, your profiles appear on the [Datadog APM > Profiler page][15]. If they do not, refer to the [Troubleshooting][16] guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A couple of minutes after you start your application, your profiles appear on the [Datadog APM > Profiler page][15]. If they do not, see the [Troubleshooting][16] guide.
```

COR_PROFILER={846F5F1C-F9AE-4B07-969E-05C26BC060D8}
DD_PROFILING_ENABLED=1
DD_SERVICE=MyService

# other optional environment variables
DD_ENV=production
DD_VERSION=1.2.3
```

{% img src="tracing/setup/dotnet/RegistryEditorFramework.png" alt="Using the Registry Editor to create environment variables for a Windows service" style="width:90%" /%}

**With a PowerShell script:**

For .NET Core and .NET 5+:
```powershell
[string[]] $v = @(
    "CORECLR_ENABLE_PROFILING=1",
    "CORECLR_PROFILER={846F5F1C-F9AE-4B07-969E-05C26BC060D8}",
    "DD_PROFILING_ENABLED=1",
    "DD_SERVICE=MyService",
    "DD_ENV=production",
    "DD_VERSION=1.2.3"
)
Set-ItemProperty HKLM:SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\MyService -Name Environment -Value $v
```

For .NET Framework:
```powershell
[string[]] $v = @(
    "COR_ENABLE_PROFILING=1",
    "COR_PROFILER={846F5F1C-F9AE-4B07-969E-05C26BC060D8}",
    "DD_PROFILING_ENABLED=1",
    "DD_SERVICE=MyService",
    "DD_ENV=production",
    "DD_VERSION=1.2.3"
)
Set-ItemProperty HKLM:SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\MyService -Name Environment -Value $v
```

Optional: Set up [Source Code Integration][14] to connect your profiling data with your Git repositories.

> A couple of minutes after you start your application, your profiles appear on the [Datadog APM > Profiler page][15]. If they do not, refer to the [Troubleshooting][16] guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A couple of minutes after you start your application, your profiles appear on the [Datadog APM > Profiler page][15]. If they do not, see the [Troubleshooting][16] guide.
```

For .NET Core and .NET 5+:
```shell
SET CORECLR_ENABLE_PROFILING=1
SET CORECLR_PROFILER={846F5F1C-F9AE-4B07-969E-05C26BC060D8}
SET DD_PROFILING_ENABLED=1
SET DD_SERVICE=MyService

REM other optional environment variables
SET DD_ENV=production
SET DD_VERSION=1.2.3

REM start the application here
```

For .NET Framework:
```shell
SET COR_ENABLE_PROFILING=1
SET COR_PROFILER={846F5F1C-F9AE-4B07-969E-05C26BC060D8}
SET DD_PROFILING_ENABLED=1
SET DD_SERVICE=MyService

REM other optional environment variables
SET DD_ENV=production
SET DD_VERSION=1.2.3

REM start the application here
```

Optional: Set up [Source Code Integration][14] to connect your profiling data with your Git repositories.

> A couple of minutes after you start your application, your profiles appear on the [Datadog APM > Profiler page][15]. If they do not, refer to the [Troubleshooting][16] guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A couple of minutes after you start your application, your profiles appear on the [Datadog APM > Profiler page][15]. If they do not, see the [Troubleshooting][16] guide.
```

| ------------------------------------------------ | ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `DD_ENV`                   | String        | The [environment][20] name, for example, `production`. If not set, will be `unspecified-environment` |
| `DD_SERVICE`               | String        | The [service][20] name, for example, `web-backend`. If this is not specified, the .NET Profiler tries to determine the service name automatically from the application name (process entry assembly or process name).    |
| `DD_VERSION`               | String        | The [version][20] of your service. If not set, will be `unspecified-version` |
| `DD_TAGS`                  | String        | Tags to apply to an uploaded profile. Must be a list of `<key>:<value>` separated by commas such as: `layer:api,team:intake`.   |
| `DD_AGENT_HOST`            | String        | Sets the host where profiles are sent (the host running the Agent). Can be a hostname or an IP address. Ignored if `DD_TRACE_AGENT_URL` is set. Defaults to `localhost`.  |

> | `DD_TRACE_AGENT_PORT`      | String        | Sets the port where profiles are sent (the port where the Agent is listening for connections). Ignored if `DD_TRACE_AGENT_URL` is set. Defaults to`8126`.  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `DD_TRACE_AGENT_PORT`      | String        | Sets the port where profiles are sent (the port where the Agent is listening for connections). Ignored if `DD_TRACE_AGENT_URL` is set. Defaults to `8126`.  |
```
